The Joe Rogan experience.
But again, I'm a responsible grownup, right?
I'm 54 years old and I know what I'm doing. Um,
so when we think about some like cocaine, cocaine,
not the that people sell on the street that's been stepped on.
So like when you go to places like Columbia and you go to the source and you get
really good cocaine, like Columbia cocaine is about $7 a gram,
whereas in New York is, can be anywhere from 60 to a hundred dollars a gram,
um, uh, and not as good as the product in Columbia.
So you go to the source countries and you get good stuff. Um,
it could be a really good evening with you and your significant other,
you know, and, um, um, uh,
all of these sort of stories of people being paranoid about the cops with
cocaine, their reasons to be paranoid if you're doing something wrong,
they're there. So I get that. I mean, so they're.
Also worried about being.
Arrested. That's what I'm talking about. That's exactly what I'm,
that's exactly what I mean. So there's a reason to,
that's a rational sort of thing. Um,
but what's irrational is that we are arresting people for what they put in their
bodies. Yeah.
Yeah. Agreed. Yeah. Agreed wholeheartedly.
And I always point out that you can go to CVS and buy enough liquor to kill
yourself. Absolutely. 24 7 all day long.
It's so easy to do. Absolutely. Yeah. So,
but when we think about cocaine and why it's illegal. Yeah. Um,
uh, cocaine came to the United States, uh,
in a pop for the popular masses in the late 18 hundreds.
And Coca-Cola this guy, John Pennelton, I think his name was,
he put it in Coca Cola. Well, this product, a cocoa wine, uh,
and he was out of Atlanta and, uh,
he put it in cocoa wine in
1894, the next year,
Atlanta banned alcohol. So before prohibition,
alcohol was banned in Atlanta, poor prohibition, Atlanta, just Atlanta.
I mean, cities interesting, various cities bad.
This prohibition happened in 1920, uh, nationwide.
Um, so since they ban, um, alcohol in Atlanta,
he had to come up with a new formulation and he,
and so what he did was tucked the alcohol out, added carbonated water and sugar.
Then you have Coca-Cola that's,
this is how this is how Coca-Cola was made.
And he put it in the soda fountain soda.
So that pharmacies at the soda fountains and they were for whites only.
So cocaine was,
you was typically available only to white people at that time.
But then in, I guess, maybe 1899,
early 19 hundreds, Coca-Cola began bottling the products.
Now it's available to black people,
and now you start to get DS the connection between
violence and cocaine use among black people and this
sort of narrative grew and grew, um,
to the point where we banned cocaine effectively in
1914,
largely because of its association with black people using the drug,
a similar thing happened with opium and the Chinese.
That's the real reason that those drugs are bad.
Not because of pharmacology. You know what I'm saying? Yeah.
Now that's not to say that people can't get in trouble with these drugs.
So people do, you.
Know, they can get in trouble with alcohol. That's.
Right. That's right. But the only stories that we tell about cocaine,
uh, uh, is the one where people get in trouble. Yeah. But I gotta tell you,
uh, recently I watched, uh, uh, Pete Davison's movie. What was that?
The king of Staten island.
It was the first time in a popular movie where,
um, the, a hero, uh,
used cocaine and he was still a hero.
So you might remember the scene where Steve Buscemi and, uh,
I think bill bird, they was talking about and see the movie. Oh,
it was a great start. It was great. A great scene where they were talking about,
um, Pete's dad and Pete's dad, um,
had used cocaine previously and, um, Pete didn't know this.
And, but it was just a matter of fact, the guy used cocaine.
He liked his cocaine, but he was still the good guy. He was a fireman,
he was a hero. He was all of these things.
And they didn't smirch him for using cocaine.
It's one of the few times that you see in popular culture that somebody uses
something like cocaine and they're not smart. They don't have,
they don't go down this path to becoming an addict and losing all of their
possessions because of the drug. And so I thought like,
they're doing something here that's different. And that was really,
that was a great scene. Yeah.
Most of the stereotypes about cocaine and Hollywood are, you know,
people using people, CD people,
people that have no compassion for each other, ruthlessly,
ambitious people doing Coke and just for full of themselves in the high,
on themselves. And Ron, I'm going to take off it. It's town. That's what you,
you hear and see, you know?
Yeah. Um, yeah. Hope that changes, man. I know.
Yeah. Well, I mean, uh, I would try it with you. Yeah. I would try it.
Especially listening to you and knowing you probably get the real. Yeah. I just,
uh, I avoid things that make me confident. I'm not interested in that.
I'm confident enough. I'm plenty confident. I like things that scare me.
That's why I like marijuana so much. I do. I tell people think I'm kidding.
I'm not, I, I like the paranoia.
I like freaking out because I always come out of it to the other end with some
sort of a lesson, because I think sometimes, um,
we can shield ourselves from things that are,
we're really worried about or shield ourselves from concerns that we have,
or even from ruthlessly introspective thoughts
that come with a high doses of marijuana.
And that's the thing that freaks a lot of people out.
I find them very beneficial.
Some of the best moments I've had personally or after some of the wildest
trips where I was like, boy, this is rough. And, but at the end, when it's over,
I come out feeling so much better. Okay.
I feel you. I mean, that's great. I mean, because you know, um,
that's useful, uh, you feel like you're a better person. That's cool.
But sometimes you just want to be euphoric and just enjoy your
significant other. Show me, you know what I'm saying? So,
and so cocaine or some other drug might be useful for that.
And so it's not like you have to have only that experience that frightens
you and then you become a better person that at the end of it, um,
I'm all for that. That's fine. You got that. Um, uh,
but I would just say broaden your repertoire. Yeah.
That's it, the problem is like, get the, if it was legal, it'd be great.
Like you could get pure cocaine and you knew what you were getting,
but if you're getting cocaine in Austin, Texas,
you probably getting it from some sketchy dude. Yeah.
Oh a is also selling a bunch of other and yeah. I mean,
I'm gonna imagine I've never tried to buy it.
Yeah. But you know, um, two things here, um,
we got the technology to put on the streets where
people can, um, just submit small samples of their drug,
10 milligrams, which is nothing. And then they get a chem,
they get a readout of the chemical composition of their drug. Right.
We have that technology.
If the public would put pressure on their officials that make sure that it's
available to people where they can submit their drugs,
small samples of their drugs free and anonymously. Uh,
and then they get this Rita.
Departments it's so taboo. Like if you even admit that you do cocaine paper,
like look at this guy was ready to ruin his life, barely hanging on over there.
Carl, look at you doing cocaine.
This is why in the book. I admit my heroin use my cocaine,
use all of my drug use.
So I'm trying to change that image because I have met people all
around the world, some politicians and so forth and got high with these people.
Uh, of course I won't say who they are. Uh, but, um,
the vast majority of people who use these drugs are people who are
responsible, take care of their families. They care about their communities.
They do all this sort of stuff,
but Hollywood and the media and the mythology is
so powerful in showing only this one image. Yes.
Um, and I'm trying to really disrupt that because it's,
it's so harmful to so many people.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.